  I have designed a 3D Tic-Tac-Toe game with Java implementing the minimax algorithm. I chose to do so as the algorithm helps provide the AI with all the possible “best” moves and then determine what move should be taken based on the randomizer. I also chose to use heuristic values to provide the AI with a more holistic picture. Ultimately, my AI should be able to beat the randomizer after correctly implementing minimax.  
  
  I implemented the minimax algorithm as it allows the AI to calculate what the best possible route it should take based on what the randomizer chooses. Since the minimax algorithm provides the AI with a graphical tree with values as to what the potential best move is, my AI is able to beat the randomizer. The basic principle is that the algorithm looks into the future of all the possible moves the opponent will make and the moves after and so on. Each possible move is represented as a node in a tree and through the use of heuristics, the AI is able to find the best move for both itself and the opponent.

  The minimax algorithm provides the AI with an idea of the best and worst moves by sending down an alpha (best already explored option along path to the root for the maximizer) and a beta value (best already explored option along path to the root for the minimizer) to compute which value will give my AI the maximum score. Pruning could be done to eliminate certain moves and subtress if there’s no way that the maximizer will even explore that path due to already having a better option.
